I am so glad we took this trip.
The North Sea is absolutely
gorgeous this time of year.
It's so clear.
I can see for miles.
That's great.
Listen. Mom. it's
really busy here.
so I'm going to need to...
That's your problem.
You're always working.
Not always.
Besides. NASA is vital in
protecting everyone's future.
It takes a lot of sacrifice.
This job is really important.
And so is your family.
You should all take a trip.
Relax a bit.
We could all take one together.
Mom. we already
talked about this.
I have work.
Tina has school.
It's always going to
be something. Talia.
That daughter of yours
is going to grow up.
and you will have missed
her whole childhood.
Mom. I see her plenty.
and Tina is excelling
in her classes.
It's getting chilly.
You would think
that climate change
meant things would get warmer.
That's not how it works. Mom.
Listen. just stay inside.
and you'll be good.
Talia?
Oh. my God.
Mom?
[beeping]
[phone vibrates]
-Bennett here.
-Are you seeing this?
Yes. General.
I'm looking at it right now.
We'll meet you at
the Pentagon ASAP.
I'm heading over to you
the second we end this call.
What's causing this.
Dr. Bennett?
It's a near-Earth object.
and it's already
injecting itself
into the Earth-Moon system.
It's interfering with
the Earth's axial tilt.
It can mean a drop
in global temperature.
The beginning of a
worldwide ice age.
Oh. yeah. she's right here.
Just like you. always
trying to figure out
the next line of code.
TALIA: Did you guys speak
to my mom today?
Hmm.
Oh. she tried earlier.
Wishing Granda
and Pop-pop a happy anniversary.
but she
couldn't get through.
TALIA: Joe.
Does it have anything
to do with the news?
Joe!
There is extremely cold.
unpredictable weather
headed your way.
I need you and Tina
to get to safety now.
-Wait. what?
-Joe.
There is no time.
I need you to go to the office.
In my top right-hand
drawer. there is...
There is a silver thumb drive
labeled ARC Models Live.
I need you to take
that. get the go bags.
and head to NASA's
bunker in Mount Weather.
Okay.
Anything else?
Also. I need you to grab the
Pelican case from the garage.
It has all the cold-weather
gear that you need.
What about you?
I need to stay and
see if I can solve this.
So you're not meeting us there?
No. I can't. You and Tina
need to get to the bunker.
Can't you just do your
work from the bunker?
I need to be here. Joe.
Okay.
I love you.
You should go grab your
go bags in the closet:
shoes. coat. laptop.
We're out the door
in two minutes. All right?
No questions.
Dr. Bennett.
Nice to finally
meet you in person.
I'm General David Green.
I'm the commander of this
Unified Joint Strike Force.
I'll be working
with the Joint Chiefs.
Right this way.
[electrical crackling]
Looks like only
hardened electrical sources
are going to be reliable due to
the electromagnetic field
caused by Nemesis.
Nemesis?
That's the designation
for this NEO?
Yes.
Then follow me.
Did Mom say that she
would meet us there?
Your mom wants us safe.
This suit's really
uncomfortable. Dad.
I know.
It's because it's a
special prototype
with an ectothermic
regulation system.
Your mom brought it back home
from her trip to Antarctica.
But most important. it'll
keep us warm and protect us.
And why do I still feel cold?
Well. because part
of the system of the suits
that we're
wearing is recapturing
the heat of your body
to then reuse it
when you're organs...
Basically. it's
meant for survival.
It's not comfort.
So we can make it to the bunker.
Can I have your
attention. please?
This is Dr. Talia Bennett.
She's from NASA.
Now. with the defunding
of NOAA. NASA's going to be
taking the lead
on this task force.
This is Administrator Alan
from FEMA
and Captain Andrew Houts from
the United States Space Force.
All right. Doctor.
get us up to speed.
All right. Approximately an
hour ago.
a previously untracked NEO.
Nemesis.
about the size of Mount Everest.
entered the Earth-Moon system.
Don't we track those objects?
Yes. but its approach was
hidden by the sun's glare.
So how long till impact?
There won't be an impact.
The gravity well in
the Earth-Moon system
has trapped Nemesis
in between them.
causing an increase
in Earth's axial tilt.
Okay. so what are
the implications?
Okay.
Earth sits at 23.5
degrees off-center.
That angle is everything.
When the North Pole points
towards the sun. it's summer.
When it points away. winter.
It's not how close the sun is.
it's the angle.
And Nemesis just changed
that by 2 to 3 degrees.
causing havoc on
worldwide weather systems.
So what's the
worst-case scenario?
The Earth will cool down half
a degree to a degree every day.
With that will
come Arctic blasts
that are unpredictable. random.
And finally. this will
create a worldwide ice age.
freezing everything
to negative 50 below.
Tell us more about
an Arctic blast.
It's a sudden freeze front
that can plunge temperatures
down to negative 400 degrees
in an instant. then back.
Well. how long until we lock
into this permanent ice age?
At current rates?
Two years.
Okay. um... Well.
need to prep the president.
but I want
to give him options.
What about we send
a sentinel ICBM
and blow the
thing out of the sky?
That'll buy us time.
Sir. high-yield options in orbit
invite debris and fall out.
We're trading blizzards
for a nuclear winter.
Plus. we'd kill hundreds
of millions as well.
We can't destroy it.
Give me some viable options.
We move it.
I said viable. Doctor.
No. this is a viable option.
We have a constellation
of communication satellites
in low Earth orbit
that we can repurpose.
You want to crash a thousand
satellites into Nemesis?
That's as bad as blowing it up.
No. think about it like this.
They're like mini tugboats
initiating microburns
that push
Nemesis out of orbit.
I like it.
Distributed risk.
No single point of failure.
If you can do it...
Can you do it?
Yes.
I can write a code that
will orchestrate the burn.
But I will need some
models that will predict
Nemesis' response
in near to real time.
I can get those from
the Toolik field station.
How long?
Initial contact. a few days.
Once we reach maximum delta V.
a few weeks.
Five at most.
Okay. Captain. relink
the network so that
she can get a
hardened line to
the Toolik field station
down at sub-level X.
That's our area
where it's a hardened facility
for extreme
situations like this.
Copy. sir.
Now. I know that your
husband is a recon marine.
but I'd like you to coordinate
with Administrator Allen here
to get your family squared away.
But. Doctor?
You own the code.
Give me results.
This is going to be
one hell of a phone call.
Yes. sir.
It's going to take forever.
Dad. I'm really cold.
I know. I've got the heat
up running full blast.
I don't know if it's a good
idea to be on social media right
now.
We should save our batteries.
Seriously. Dad?
I've hacked into the
Virginia DOT traffic servers.
I'm trying to find us a
faster way to Mount Weather
that's away from all of this.
All right. Okay.
I should have known.
Uh. turn right up here.
Yeah.
There's a service road
that the state troopers
technically haven't
opened up officially yet.
but I figure that it
would save us some extra time.
Nice job.
Still cold. Dad.
Doctor. this is our
backup server room.
We need to make sure all
of this is online and ready.
We have two years
as per your calculations
and this is part of
our fallback plan.
There are a lot of
people depending on us.
This room is already
a hardened facility.
If the Pentagon goes
dark. these fuel cells
will give us
a double redundancy.
Make sure you stay up
and running and warm.
Doing all we can do
to mitigate injury or the worse.
Cheyenne Mountain is
standing by to link you
with Toolik Field Station's
weather models directly.
Alright. to get DART
up and running.
we need as continuous a data
connection as possible.
That might mean analog backup.
Hello.
You'll get redundancy if you
use the old Cold War network.
If the modern network fails
or collapses.
you're still up and running.
How old are we talking?
Analog. Copper.
Twisted pairs.
Old. Good old stuff.
Genuine. Reliable.
Well. let's get started then.
See if you can
get Mom on the phone.
By now she should know
what this is all about.
[phone beeping]
Nothing.
Disconnects every time I try.
Okay.
We save the battery.
Network's probably overloaded.
I hope Mom meets us there.
She will.
Okay. team.
On the staging floor.
the zones are color-coded.
Write this down.
Green is go.
Amber is pack.
Red is shelter.
Bus fleets to hospitals first.
National Guard
to long-term care.
School principals.
Shelter in place protocols now.
If you can walk. you can guide.
Any questions?
Ma'am. requests for
pet sheltering
are flooding every line.
We're completely at capacity.
Let them take the pets.
Why?
Because it doesn't matter.
Might as well not freeze alone.
[phone rings]
Let's get to work.
Yes. sir. Mr. President.
Administrator Allen's
efforts are moving along
quite nice and getting
everybody to safety.
Yes. sir.
I know. I agree.
Well. Captain House
and Dr. Bennett
are currently reprogramming
the communications satellite
constellations as we speak.
Yes. sir.
Understood.
Captain Houts. I need an update.
We're moving to the stack
and coordinating the
swarm intelligence
to the waypoint
navigation system.
GREEN: Copy that.
Triple the redundancy.
We need this to work.
Already on it. sir.
This is not going
to fail on that watch.
If we anticipate the precession.
we can pre-bias
the burn vectors.
give it a corridor to fall into.
So that ensures us a
better chance of success.
Yeah. but it won't
ever be 100 percent.
My parents were on a
holiday by the North Sea.
I was talking to my
mom this morning
and we lost connection.
We have to stop this.
No one else should
lose their family.
We will.
Here.
Let me know how I can help.
This is strong.
Label those bunkers by capacity.
We want to fill the biggest
ones first. not by numbers.
Keep those families together.
Hey!
Hey. hold that pallet!
I'm coming down.
Distribution centers all
across the country
can follow orders. but this one
downstairs is struggling.
I'll be right back.
[honking]
Wind is picking up as well.
I can feel it in the steering.
We should move faster.
Not a hammer.
a thousand fingers.
Flocking algorithms
and formation controls
are loaded and compiled.
Good. I'll plug in that module
and extend the code base.
God. we're not even going to
have time for a static analysis.
All right.
We could just go around.
but this is the only way
into the Blue Ridge Mountains
and Mount weather.
Dad. we can't just plow
through a state trooper.
So I say go around.
[screaming. banging]
Down!
No!
I'm freaking out!
What was that?
Keep your head down. all right?
[engine starts]
Is the trooper okay?
No.
What are we going to do. Dad?
We get to the bunker
as fast as we can.
All right?
Evacs are flowing.
Shelter's at a
90 minute capacity.
City leadership wants
a comms schedule.
Okay. you'll have it as soon as
we harden the Pentagon lines.
All right. we've
completed the initial build
and should
be ready to execute.
Should?
Well. it goes without saying
this is extremely
complicated. sir.
We've addressed all problems
to the best of our abilities.
It's a lot of code.
Okay. well.
fortune favors the bold.
I say we go now.
[alarm sounds]
-System overload!
-What is this?
What's causing this?
Wait. We just got back
data from the VLBI.
Set density profiles wrong...
The redshift is this high.
The current spin up.
Spit it out. Doctor.
Original calculations
showed we had two years
of cold weather
and anomalous arctic winds
before an irreversible
ice age set in.
The new data just came in.
We don't have two years.
We have two months
before the world is frozen.
Listen. Lieutenant Roberts.
collect everybody's phone.
No information leaves this room.
Okay. I need you to
upload that code now
and get those satellites
over to Nemesis ASAP.
Sir. it's been compiled.
but no bug checks.
dry runs. sanity checks
have even been completed.
Well. how long would that take?
Two to three days at least.
And even that's pushing it.
Look. moving now
would be reckless. sir.
We have no room for error here.
Captain. under these
circumstances. not moving now
-would be the reckless choice.
-Copy that.
Right. you. Alan.
you're with me.
Yes. sir.
You speak five languages. right?
I need you on the
phone with the U.N.
I have no idea if this
is even going to work.
It's going to work.
You're a good coder.
It has to.
Okay. Jack in here.
I'll coordinate with the USSF.
ESA and JAXA uplink command.
Get this thing moving
as quickly as possible.
X-ray Charlie.
Prep station field for
incoming signal parameters
along with a code
packet for upload.
Romeo Foxtrot.
Give me video feeds from
Brussels. Beijing. and Delhi.
I want simultaneous
confirmation.
Sir.
Coordinating with global ERCs.
Feeds populating on monitors.
Copy.
Satellite uplink relays locked.
Paired.
Ready for code transmission.
General. I need your approval.
We have ESA confirmation.
JAXA confirmation.
We are ready to go.
Copy... Copy.
General. initiating code upload.
Okay. Clear channel.
Clear channel.
Commence uploading
synchronous packets.
Commencing upload.
Upload starting.
Okay. all birds reporting.
Guidance update pushed.
Confirm bird vectors.
All right. vectors set.
We're hands off after commit.
The control layer
adapts mid-pulse.
Do it.
Are you sure. General?
Do it. Dr. Bennett.
Mark.
Execute.
We have movement.
We have...
[beeping]
Wait. wait. wait. wait.
Wait!
No. the torque amplified and
accelerated the precession!
Shut them down!
We can't.
It's autonomous.
It's mid-cycle.
We're locked in!
How long is the burn?
Ten seconds.
Sitrep.
Nemesis trajectory
adjustment failed.
Actually. we just pushed it in.
We've increased the axial tilt.
We've made the magnetosphere
twice as angry.
No...
Damn it!
Okay. sir...
No. I need options.
not opinions.
We need to damp the spin.
Fast.
We can't touch Nemesis again.
Not until we reduce
the pressure differential.
This increased movement
from Nemesis will
no doubt increase
the acceleration of
the axial tilt.
making it colder faster.
creating more arctic blasts.
We likely reduced our
time down to a month.
We can inject some heat
into the weather system
to counteract the
fast-tracked cold.
But we need a controlled
stratospheric warm surge.
Well. how are we
supposed to control that?
Detonation of a tactical nuclear
device in the 10 kiloton range.
Well. I thought explosive
ordnance was off the table.
You know. we can't deploy
against Nemesis directly.
but I don't think that's what
Dr. Bennett is suggesting.
I'm not. We would deploy it
into the atmosphere
and create heat to
counteract the cold.
Where?
The North Pole.
Right above the cap
in the right envelope.
Minimal material lofted.
pressure lifted.
jet normalization...
What? You're serious?
And how much damage
is that going to cause?
Listen. I'm choosing a small
fire over an endless night.
We have to slow this down.
Okay. I'll get a W-54 dialed
into the 10 kiloton range
and I'll have it deployed ASAP.
Come on...
-[engine sputters]
-Come on!
Dad. I'm honestly
surprised it made it this far.
I think it's dead.
Maybe that one isn't.
Okay.
Wait here while I check it out.
You think there's just going
to be keys in the sun visor?
Well. wouldn't
that be something?
Stay here.
Keep warm.
Careful!
Jesus.
Come on. buddy.
[grunting]
Yep. nope.
Well. I tried.
Sorry. pal.
[grunting]
Jackpot.
[engine starts]
Come on!
Get in the truck!
It smells in here. Dad.
This is so gross.
If it works. it works.
Blackstar. this
is General Green.
ETA to drop?
We are 200 kilometers
away from the drop zone.
ETA is one minute.
Damn.
Go for drop.
Copy that!
The President wants to know
how solid is the
science on this.
Well. it's solid.
The heat released
from the warhead will counteract
the cooling
effects on the jetstream.
Why didn't we start
with this procedure?
It's a stopgap measure.
not a solution.
Approaching drop zone. General.
On profile.
Arming sequence set.
Envelope looks good.
Crosswinds negligible.
Right.
Detonation 10.8
kilometers above cap.
No penetration.
We're heating air. not ice.
Do it.
Payload...
Away.
[beeping intensifies]
Come on...
Temperature rising.
Two degrees.
Three degrees.
Good work. people.
We'll let the President
know the good news.
Oh. wait. Wait.
I'm seeing pressure
discontinuity.
That could cause a tsunami.
-Where?
-Off Anchorage.
In the Alaskan Gulf.
There's also a high possibility
for an arctic blast.
Send a warning out now.
Get any traffic
or webcams you can.
Wait.
What kind of tsunami?
Meteotsunami. Caused by sudden
changes in air pressure.
fast-moving storm fronts.
or apparently
a 10-kiloton nuclear-powered
aerial detonation.
-A meteotsunami.
-Exactly.
Get me the mayor of Anchorage
or the governor on the phone.
Whoever you can get first.
The wave is two miles
from Anchorage and closing.
One mile and closing.
Half a mile and closing.
Did that wave just
freeze in midair?
Have the city of
Anchorage evacuated immediately
before that wave thaws.
The model hub.
It's gone.
And for security. the copies
were auto-gapped and airlocked.
No remote pull.
Protocol burned
them on grid loss.
We're blind.
Except for one copy.
I have a copy on my thumb drive.
And my husband
and daughter have it.
Then your thumb drive
is the most important object
on the face of the Earth.
Just spoke with
Marine Commandant Petercheck.
He says he's going to
send the MARSOC raiders
after Tina and Joe.
And he's going
to have your family
and the thumb drive
as soon as possible.
Good. Without that modeling
data. we're dead in the water.
Why is it that you have the
data and not the government?
The info from the
Toolik Field Station
is downloaded to a number
of governmental agencies.
But the code needs to
be compiled and verified.
I compiled the code prior
to its distribution.
So my thumb drive
has the latest version.
Well. how far can we
get without the drive?
We need to prep a
new direct effort to
remove Nemesis from
the Earth-Moon system.
Without that.
we can't stop this Ice Age.
If we push it
with something bigger
than a communications satellite.
-Like a propulsion assembly?
-Exactly.
We ferry a propulsion
system to Nemesis
using the Dream Chaser
space plane.
Push it back to
the asteroid belt.
Not exactly easy.
Oh. no. no. no. no.
But better for the planet
than a nuclear blast.
Okay. but we don't have
time to spin up a launch code.
General...
This is
Majestic-level clearance.
Can you read them in?
Majestic?
Uh. Dr. Bennett.
Administrator Allen.
this is
need-to-know information.
It does not leave this room.
-Continue.
-Sir.
There is already a
Dream Chaser being prepped
at Cape Canaveral for
a Black Ops mission.
All we would have to do is
reprogram the mission profile.
Okay. but we'd still need
to spin a launch
-for the Dream Chaser.
-That's the best part.
The ISS is being decommissioned.
leaving only Tiangong.
the Chinese space station.
in space.
The U.S. needs the capability
to remove the threat
of Tiangong's
weapons platform.
So. we've been
testing a propulsion assembly
to push
Tiangong into deep space.
Everything we need is
there and ready to go.
We want to know
that CNSA has already approved
any kind
of help that you need.
So I need you to go down to the
Cape and prep the Dream Chaser.
And I need you to
get started on the code
before you
leave for the Cape.
Wait. wait. leave?
What are you talking about?
Well. we're going
to need you there.
We can't have any of the code
be corrupted over transmission.
You need to be there
to hardwire the code.
He's right. He's right.
We need you there to
ensure maximum success.
Oh. okay.
I don't do heights.
Or flying.
Or... heights.
You're the head of NASA.
Yes. And there's a reason
why I am
in the control room
and not the rocket.
Well. not today.
I need you to prep the hardware
and I need you to get started
on the code before
you leave wheels up in sixty.
Copy that. sir.
You heard him. Doctor.
Yes. sir.
General. I think we need
to seed storms over
the most populated cities
to avoid arctic blasts.
That's a really good idea.
I'll coordinate
with the Air Force
while you start getting
work on the code.
COMPUTER: Warning! Massive
pressure differential detected.
Oh no. another arctic blast
bringing down
our electrical system
in the hardened area
as well as the regular areas.
Aren't we in a hardened area?
We are in a hardened area.
but if everything is overloaded.
that affects the hardened area
and then we are out of luck.
Well. what about maintenance?
I mean. can't
they figure it out?
All non-essential personnel
have already been evacuated.
There are no maintenance people.
Also. everything
here is segmented
so that if anything
happens in one area.
it's protected from the other.
So we're essentially an island.
It has to be us.
What needs to be done?
Well. all the
electronics are down
below in the tunnel.
so we need to go down there.
we need to look for the problem.
and we need to solve it.
I've got a ready locker with
PPE and all the other equipment.
Follow me.
How are we going
to get into the shelter?
Unbelievable.
Yeah.
The tunnel must have ruptured.
Water came down the alley.
It was frozen by one of
those arctic blasts in mid-air.
Dad. I can't do this.
Hey. it's going to be okay.
We just need to
get past this to get
inside the shelter.
and we're home free.
I need you to be brave.
We're almost there.
We rig it. so we blow it.
I don't know about that. Dad.
If we don't. we have to
double-back two hours.
and that's assuming the car
wouldn't even make it.
We have to.
That's the only way.
We blow this up and get
into the shelter. all right?
The fuses in the north. south.
east. and west tunnel need
to be reset and primed
before we fix any of the shorts.
Otherwise. we overload
the entire system.
That's why we've got to
work as a team. all right?
Timing is everything.
All right. stay safe.
Stay in contact over the comms.
Yes!
That should work.
What if it blows back on us?
[grunting]
Junction three iced.
No immediate threat.
Behind the car!
And cover your ears! Let's go!
It worked!
Come on!
Let's go!
Clear of ice and operational.
Priming the breaker.
Power node one is primed
and ready
for when we find the fault.
All right...
all right.
Node four clear.
Priming node.
Heading back.
Node three clear.
It's on you.
Madam Administrator.
Are any of you getting
this temperature drop?
TALIA:
No. our systems are holding.
I think I've
found the control box.
Damn. It's frozen over.
[grunts]
You copy?
[sighs]
I found the problem.
The wires are pretty damaged
from the temperature drop.
Copy that.
[electrical crackling]
Damn it!
TALIA:
What happened?
Nothing.
I just... cut my glove.
I'm fine.
Careful.
Any contact of your skin to
the metal can cause frostbite.
LAUREL: I grew up in Minnesota.
I'm aware.
Copy.
All right.
Once I flip these.
you'll have a minute
of stable juice at best.
Reset your core.
Route the feed.
TALIA:
That's not enough time.
Then be faster.
Laurel. are you okay?
Laurel. you need
to get out of there.
It's not safe.
LAUREL:
I grew up on a farm.
We did a winter with a
cracked stove and a prayer.
Safe is relative.
All right.
Here's more of it.
[grunts]
All right.
We're go.
I can't hold this for very
long.
The node is active.
You're gonna get a window.
Take it.
TALIA: Got it.
I'm accessing it right now.
Hold that line.
I'm almost at the
command center.
I think a pipe burst.
Flood!
Agh!
Damn it!
I'm stuck. My foot.
Oh. my God. Houts!
No. no. no.
You can't help me.
I'm not gonna leave you.
You'll get stuck. too.
All right.
You can fix the problem fast.
You save me. you.
and the planet.
Go.
Now. Doc! Go!
Captain Houts is
caught in an ice bloom.
Hold on. Madam Administrator.
Freeze is coming fast.
I can't hold on.
[groans]
Come on!
Come on...
Come on.
I can bring the core online.
but there's only
buffer for one save.
Either you or Captain Houts.
You can just hold on.
Come on. Bennett.
Laurel. I can't save you both.
He needs to fly
the Dream Chaser.
The only way
to save the planet...
...is to save him.
What?
Dr. Allen. what did you say?
Hold on.
Let me try to fix this.
There's no time.
You save him. Dr. Bennett.
And then you go save the world.
I'm sorry.
[powering up]
Routing core to
hardened cluster.
[door opens]
Pentagon return complete.
Dr. Allen?
I had to make a decision.
Shit.
Our systems are back online.
But General.
we may have a problem.
Oh. excellent.
It's been about three minutes
since we've had one of those.
The increased rotational
spin of Nemesis.
along with the massive
amounts of copper
and aluminum at
its core is
creating massive currents.
strong enough to bring down
the last of the hardened
systems across the world.
When?
It's happening right now.
But due to the
increased activity of Nemesis.
disruptions will be random.
We need to get you
to the Cape right now.
I'm nowhere near done
with the code that's needed.
You'll have to finish
the code at the Cape
while Captain Houts
preps the Dream Chaser.
Yeah. he's right.
The sooner we get to the Cape.
the better our chances.
God. I wish my
daughter was here.
She's a much better coder.
Plus. she has the info
from Toolik Field Station.
Loo. once the Raiders
find your husband and daughter.
we'll get you that code.
You need to be at the
Cape and upload that code
to the Dream Chaser.
and you need to leave now.
Is flying a good
idea in this weather?
I mean. tidal
waves are freezing.
I know you have
a thing about flying.
but as you've explained
these Arctic blasts.
they're isolated.
contained. and random.
meaning the people and places
on the ground
will be affected.
but going at the speed
and altitude that you'll
be flying. you won't be.
Yeah. he's right.
Also. I have an F-15E
Strike Eagle out of Eielson.
It's been hardened
for cold-weather ops.
Special fuel blends. Arctic
ground support. de-icing.
It's being prepped right
now at Ronald Reagan.
You need to get everything
you need for programming.
and you need to be up
in the air in 20 minutes.
Can't go any further.
Some sheltered.
but there's nobody here.
and we're stuck in a kitchen.
Dad. I'm cold.
Nope.
I have an idea.
Does this work?
Yes...
Okay. Dad. this is a
really awesome hack.
This is hitting
the spot right now.
Enjoy it while it lasts.
I don't know how long
until the line's freeze. honey.
I mean. we are only 10 miles
away from Mount Weather.
We could start
heading over there.
The car won't make it.
Let's not worry
about that right now.
Do you think Mom's okay?
I mean. she would be with us
if she wasn't always working.
We might not ever see her again.
Hey. don't you ever say that.
Mom is fine.
Okay?
She's at the Pentagon.
That's the safest
place on the planet.
And she's smart.
Just like you.
She's probably
been waiting for us.
With blankets and hot chocolate.
Probably right.
I just have to keep
reminding myself
that being on the
ground isn't any better.
This air-frame
was built for punishment.
Twin engines.
Redundant systems.
Ejection seats.
Strap you into this baby.
storm is safer than
any commercial jet.
Great.
Reagan Tower.
Viper 1-1. single-ship F-15E.
IFR to Cape Canaveral.
Holding short runway.
One-nine-niner.
Ready for departure.
Viper 1-1. Reagan Tower.
Runway 1-9 cleared for takeoff.
Fly runway heading climb and
maintain one-zero-thousand.
Departure frequency
one-two-five point eight.
Squawk four-five-two-one.
Contact departure on roll.
Thank you.
Front line's worse
than forecast.
Shear like teeth.
Then I suggest we keep
our hands out of its mouth.
Yeah. I agree.
My screen's flickering.
Something's playing
with the field.
Nemesis's interference
is getting worse.
Should be able to correlate
the rotational frequency
with its effect on the
electrical magnetosphere.
Come again?
Rough weather ahead.
Working on a way
to anticipate better.
Copy that.
Look. whatever
helps keep us alive.
Command. Dr. Bennett.
EM anomaly's escalating.
Copy that. Doctor.
Now. Canaveral says they
can build you a narrow window.
But be aware.
there is reports of
a massive hailstorm at the Cape.
Coming in waves.
Now. if you can thread
the needle between
the first and second
waves. you'll be golden.
Golden.
Copy that.
We thread the needle.
we fly to the Cape.
we fly the Dream Chaser.
Simple.
We need Tina's modules meshed
before we light that fuse.
I'll finish integration
on the ground.
I was wrong!
Being on the ground is better!
We're crossing
an Arctic blast.
Winglet gone.
Can we ride asymmetric?
Yeah. we're gonna have to.
We can't dodge them all at
this speed. just the big ones.
[alarm blares]
[shouting]
Dammit. dammit!
That was the tail!
We can't control
the F-15 in this state.
The tail has subsided.
We have to get out of this jet.
It's over here.
We're ejecting.
-What?!
-We have to.
If we stay here. we're dead.
If we eject. at least
we stand a chance.
If we eject.
we're gonna be dead!
On my mark...
-One...
-No...
-Two...
Three!
I don't think
that's a good idea!
[grunting]
You in one piece?
Yeah. I'm okay!
Okay. good.
Safer than a
commercial jet. my ass!
Two miles.
Give or take.
We gotta hoof it.
We don't wanna get caught
in another Arctic blast.
So are we not gonna talk
about what just happened?!
[grunts]
Help!
Hey. wait for me!
Where's Captain Houts' plane?
It's dropped off the radar.
sir.
Is that because it's downed. or
is there a problem
with the radar?
Unknown. sir.
Find out!
Yes. sir.
Okay. all right.
Hold on.
We're almost there.
An entrance to the underground
Cape Canaveral passage
is about half a mile.
Watch out!
-Are you okay?
-Okay.
Yeah.
Okay.
All right. come on.
We won't last long in a blast.
even in these suits.
Found an entrance!
What's wrong?
Nothing.
Come on. I know you're hurt.
Ice... caught my
shoulder a little.
You can't fly
to space like that.
Come on. will you
just let me see it?
-Okay.
You're okay.
Come right here.
Don't worry.
[groans]
Ah!
Don't worry.
I'm a doctor.
Wait. wait. wait!
Medical doctor. right?
Ah!
I'm better than that.
I'm a mom and the
wife of a recon marine.
And as a bonus.
I speak four languages.
I'm not sure what the languages
have to do with my shoulder.
Thanks. doc.
[growling]
We've got company.
You speak gator. doc?
That wasn't one of the four.
Whoa. whoa. whoa.
Hey. hey. hey.
Eyes on me. handsome.
[grunts]
That gator...
showed us
the way out of here.
Looks like this tunnel
goes all the way under the road
and will let us out
near the launch complex.
Once there. we'll
identify ourselves.
They'll take us to Tartarus.
What's Tartarus?
The Space Force's top secret
subterranean facility.
It's a space complex.
It allows us to prep.
test missions
without prying eyes seeing.
That's why you
don't know about it.
Let's go.
When we get to
the shelter.
we'll make sure we
contact Mom ASAP.
Mm-hmm.
Dad. the heat's dying.
Come on.
We can break up some
chairs in the dining area.
And start a fire.
[clatter]
I think someone's here.
Shh.
Keep quiet.
Don't move.
I'm scared.
Shh.
Don't move.
Come on.
[footsteps approaching]
Hands up.
You stand right there.
Identify yourself.
I'm Marine Corps.
Captain Jackson.
We're on a rescue mission.
Lieutenant Bennett. USMC.
and his daughter. Tina.
Have you seen them?
It's us.
We've ID to prove it.
We'll verify.
Get you warmed up.
and back to Mount Weather.
If you don't mind me asking.
how'd you find us?
We're Marines. ma'am.
Let's go.
We'll be ready for
launch within the hour.
I wanted to get on that
pre-flight check ASAP.
Captain Danvers. where can
I finish the code and upload?
Let's get you outfitted
and load into the flight deck.
You. follow me to
the control center.
We can work from there.
Sir. thank you for
the Marine escort.
It helped us to get here as
safe and quick as possible.
Semper Fi. Lieutenant.
Now. Dr. Bennett is
at the Cape working
on that flight that
I described earlier.
but she needs
the Toolik Field base model
that's on her thumb drive.
Yes. we have the flash drive.
What does she need my help with?
Actually. she needs Tina.
I can give you
the specifics later.
but basically. she
wants to integrate the
Toolik Field algorithm
into the code that
she's writing for the
propulsion assembly burn
sequence.
Do you understand
what he's talking about?
Yeah. I just need Mom's base
code in order to prime the hooks
and then reset
the return patch signal.
All right. General?
I got it. So. I'll send
the rest of the code earlier.
but once you get this.
you're going to wrap
the weather model API
into the base kernel
and balance the streams.
Is that correct?
Wow. General.
You know your stuff.
Computer programming didn't
start in 2019. young lady.
Now. we have a direct hard line
from Mount Weather
to the Pentagon.
That's why we're able to
have this video conference.
We don't have the same
luxury out to the Cape.
So. unfortunately.
we're going to have
to use the old
Cold War analog lines.
That's why we can't have you
speak directly with your wife.
Copy that. General.
Oh. General. why
don't you just use AI?
Wouldn't that be a lot faster?
Well. using AI. they want to use
LLMs or large language models.
And all the code
that we're using
is proprietary
military code.
And it would just be
a security nightmare
putting that into
an AI algorithm.
People still matter. Lieutenant.
Copy that.
Now. young lady. I need
you to start coding ASAP.
And you're going to have to be
using simplex lines. not duplex.
So the data is only going
to go in one direction.
You understand?
-Yes. sir.
-Good girl. Get to it.
Let's get you plugged in.
Cool.
All right. All I need to do
is just make sure
the control packages
get sent out first.
And then I can send
out the diagnostics.
How long?
Give or take about
eight or nine minutes.
[clattering]
What's that?
Dad. we have to keep
the line going no matter
what happens outside
of there or in here.
Any news?
General Green confirms
Tina and Joe are safe.
He's also launched the
cloud seeding mission.
That'll buy us some time.
But Tina's upload of
the Toolik field model
is coming in now. but...
But what?
Upload speeds are too slow.
I don't know if...
If what?
The code will be
finalized before launch.
There is an option.
Name it.
The coding isn't
finished before launch.
Okay. wait.
Okay. wait. tell me again.
How would that work?
I can't believe
I'm suggesting this.
But I go with you.
Okay. what? You were freaking
out just flying here.
And now you want to strap
yourself to a rocket to space.
Okay. trust me.
I'm not thrilled with
the idea exactly. but
it's our only option.
We take the hardware with us
and we finish the coding there.
That takes care of communication
and latency issues.
And it can't be worse
than the Gator. right?
Yeah.
Okay.
We better get
you a pressure suit.
[crashing]
We're only at 48%.
Tina. we need to move faster.
I'm moving as fast
as I can. Dad.
No. No!
-How close?
-We're only at halfway.
Come on. guys. Move it!
Hurry that up.
We need to get
down to the bunker.
-Move it!
-Time's up.
-Move it.
-But I'm not done yet.
-That's it. You gotta move.
-I'm not done.
We gotta move.
We gotta move. Let's go!
Go!
-Dad!
-Run!
Don't look back.
Tina's upload just stopped.
[buzzer sounds]
Capcom. this is Chaser 1.
We're rolling hot.
CAPCOM:
Copy. Chaser 1.
Window is minus three
to plus 90 seconds.
Beyond that. weather winds.
Copy that. Launch checklist.
Didn't you hear me?
I don't have the code.
I heard you.
We have a launch window.
It's not up to me.
Batteries...
On.
Avionics. green.
Intertial. all green.
RCS primed.
Thermal marginal.
Could just be a glitch.
Just keep working the link.
No. no. no. no. no.
What?
The truck!
You think the
batteries will work?
We're about to find out.
Yes!
Get in!
[engine sputters]
Come on...
Come on!
[engine turns]
CAPCOM:
Five. four. three. two. one.
Go for liftoff.
Copy that.
Lighting the candle.
Helium...
CAPCOM: Guidance damped.
Hold her nose.
Copy that.
We're freezing.
If we lose it. we choke.
We're in an icing
layer 6.000 thick.
We need a thermal event on
the skin to get rid of the ice.
We got wash tanks
and chemistry.
Improvised de-icing?
We're gonna bathe a space
plane?
Only the important parts.
Either we do that...
or we lose it.
Routing methanol and chlorine
one lines to external dump.
We need a catalyst.
The catalyst
is the heat we're making.
That worked.
CAPCOM: Chaser One.
You're clear of low
level hazard.
Good climb.
Watch shear at 12K.
Climbing through.
Guidance is nominal.
We're in plan A loaded.
We're above the storm.
Fuel flow is good.
Three clean.
Four nominal.
Propulsion assembly
diagnostic is as well
as mostly green
and a little yellow.
Assembly looks
good for delivery.
We'll keep it warm.
It'll do its job.
CAPCOM: Chaser One.
Good trajectory.
You're go for
orbital insertion.
Go for insertion.
GREEN:
Capcom patched me in.
I don't know how
long this patch will be stable.
There's a breach at
Mount Weather and the facility
suffered a great
amount of damage.
At this time. the disposition
of your family is unknown.
I should be with them.
What am I doing?
I need you to find them.
General?
Uh. we lost the signal.
No. no. no. no.
We can't lose the
signal right now.
General?
Come on. come on.
come on. come on.
Come on. this
can't be happening.
I can't fail my family.
Doc. doc. doc. doc.
You have not.
You're doing
everything that you can.
I need you to focus.
Okay?
We're approaching nemesis.
We're here.
The signal's
being affected by it.
Holy shit.
Yeah.
Let's get to work.
Surface composition.
mixed regolith.
nickel-iron inclusions.
vitreous pockets.
Spin precession.
increasing three percent
per minute and climbing.
She's rolling downhill in
space.
Dragging our
magnetosphere with her.
Assembly shows stress.
Thermal gradients outside spec.
We gotta keep it warm.
Commencing fairing separation.
Propulsion assembly deployment.
Feed manifold four is sledging.
That line froze once on the pad.
It's refreezing.
Still warm on deploy?
Warm-ish.
Not a word I like
at this altitude.
Okay.
Here's what we'll do.
We deploy the propulsion
assembly slowly.
one step at a time.
very gently. okay?
You call the temps.
I'll handle the assembly.
Copy.
I'll open a channel.
Capcom. Chaser One on station.
Beginning assembly checks.
Wait. pressure just dropped.
Abort?
If we stop now. the jolt
could jam the whole process.
But if we continue. we
risk a leak and cold shock.
Pick your poison. doc.
Continue.
Then we fix it by hand.
Copy.
Capcom. propulsion assembly
is out of cradle...
but there's a frozen fuel line.
I'll need to go outside.
proceed to manually service it.
CAPCOM: Captain. we have
General Green patched in again.
I know the state of
your plane. but I will
not have you die
ten meters from success.
Do you understand me?
I need you both back
here on this side of things.
Finish the repair and get
back on board the ship ASAP.
Understood?
Roger that. General.
Proceeding with EVA.
Be careful.
General. any word on my family?
Visuals have them
leaving in a vehicle.
but their whereabouts
are still unknown.
Let's hope they can finish the
upload before it's too late.
I have the partial code here.
and I'm waiting
for the rest of it.
HOUTS:
I'm in an EVA suit. egressing
the airlock and
beginning the EVA.
CAPCOM:
Copy that.
Feed for elbows.
got a frost tattoo.
Gentle heat.
Minimal mechanical stress.
If you flex that elbow.
it'll snap like spun glass.
Copy.
Localized thaw.
Weeping.
She's weeping fuel.
Okay. back off. Now.
That's cascade territory.
If this gets worse
and this thing blows.
this will be a much
shorter trip than planned.
We should have ignition in.
Command assembly hot.
Aborting. Aborting.
Captain. status.
[shouts]
I'm here. I'm good.
We're good.
I'm... That was close.
[door opening]
All right then.
Prep for deployment?
Ready.
Deploying assembly.
And the propulsion assembly
has made contact with Nemesis.
Ready for burn.
I still don't have
that code updated.
We need the last piece.
We need to proceed now.
Okay?
It can't get worse.
Calling for burn.
Burn parameters
plugged in and ready.
Executing burn.
Three...
Two...
One.
No. no. no. no. no!
It's spinning faster.
Come on.
[whispers]
No...
Talk to me.
We made it worse.
The increased spin is
creating the global ice age now.
Wait a minute. Now?
We're past the
point of no return.
In eight hours. it won't
just be arctic blast pockets.
It'll be the whole world.
The entire planet will die.
[grunts]
Houts. talk to me.
The entire southern
hemisphere is freezing.
We are losing lives.
You don't think I know that?
The propulsion assembly
suffered a critical failure.
It sent Nemesis
spinning even faster.
Electrical grids are
going down worldwide.
[powering down]
What's going on?
Just lost all power. sir.
-Heat.
-Gone.
Okay. gather everybody
into the control room
to conserve heat and reroute any
battery power we have to comms.
Come on!
We have to launch
another assembly.
We only prepared the one.
What else you got?
I don't know.
The planet is freezing.
People are dying and
everything we do
seems to
be making it worse.
I just need a minute!
We have mass engines.
A few shorter than I'd like.
We can push a little.
Maybe enough to give
Earth a little breathing room.
Keep her surviving
for a little bit longer.
Gravity assist fake.
We burn the spin.
make the torque.
But if we...
We reroute all the fuel
from the reserve tanks.
We might be able to act as a
propulsion assembly ourselves.
That's a one-way ticket. Doc.
There's no going home.
Humanity's fate is in our
hands.
How can we let fear stop us?
Okay.
All right. I can
build a microburn ladder
to increase
our thrust ratio.
It's not as good as Tina's
code. but it'll do.
All right. we'll ride
the edge of Nemesis' field.
Less fuel. more leverage.
Things might get hairy.
strap in. doc.
General. we're initiating
emergency microburns
to attempt to replace
a propulsion assembly.
We're not going
down without a fight.
GREEN: Understood.
We'll do what we can down here.
Godspeed.
Copy that. General.
We've actually made
some great time.
thanks to
everyone who evacuated.
Yeah.
How much further?
The Pentagon's
just across the river.
In about ten minutes.
if we're lucky.
Okay.
[tires squeal]
Ugh!
Goddammit!
What?
-Why'd I have to say it?
-What?
Look.
Dad. we're out of time.
How are we going to
get to the Pentagon now?
All right.
We better cross to Washington's
Monument Plaza
and pick up the bridge on
the other side of the river.
-All right?
-[engine sputters]
[engine turns]
Uh. Dad?
Dad. it's about to break on us!
Hold on!
Hey! You okay?
Come on...
[engine sputters]
Goddammit!
There's no way.
to get it started again.
Dad?
We need to get this to Mom.
We can't just die for nothing.
I know. sweetie.
We need to.
No way.
All right...
You pack your gear. all right?
We've got a shot.
-What?
-Follow me.
-Good?
-[Yeah.
Come on.
Where are we going?
The past to save the future.
all right?
[grunts]
I don't know about this dad.
It looks really old.
Where are the computers?
Look!
Maybe the panel.
Come on!
Yes!
Good to upload from here.
And then all I need
to do is just finish this
upload to the general
and he can get it to mom.
Just a few more commands.
It's working!
[powering up]
Comms are back.
The Toolik station upload
is resumed. okay?
Port all the data
over to my work station
so I can start compiling
before we do the burst
transmission over
to Dream Chaser 1.
It won't be easy to manually
compile that much data.
I'm a space force general.
I was a computer engineer long
before I was an astronaut.
Okay. I'm going to
transfer reserve fuel
to our main tanks and
power the main thrusters.
How are the avionics coming?
Great. Tina worked fast and the
general has been uploading
the compiled version
to our nav comp system.
Tweaking the code
to maximize the burn
and get the most power
we can out of this ship.
Excellent.
Let me know when it's locked
in. okay?
Copy that.
You know. it's...
It's a little cliche.
My. uh...
Personal life and
military life in this...
Pursuit.
I have been so busy
with the world that I...
Just didn't focus on
my own personal life.
Main thrusters.
tanks full. prepped. ready.
Seems like you
have a lovely family.
You know. I worked really hard
to get to my position at NASA.
Long work hours. dissertations.
sacrifice. you know.
But nothing compares
to the moment that
I held Tina in my
arms for the first time.
She gave meaning to my life
in a way my job never did.
When you hold that baby in
your arms for the first time...
God. there's nothing like it.
You would do anything
to protect that little life.
Even if it means
sacrificing your own.
Code is compiled and uploaded
with all my tweaks
to get the best burn.
Looks like we're ready
to light this candle.
Priming the fuel lines.
-Damn.
-What?
I... I forgot.
The valve's in the CV.
You scramble back there
and check the gauge
and close the valve.
Otherwise. the valve
safes will prioritize
the fuel to the
lipo. not the mains.
Yeah. you got it.
Okay.
What am I looking for?
It's a fuel gauge. Port side.
Literally right
next to the joystick.
Oh. Found it.
Good thing. too.
Tank's full.
We'll need to
transfer it to the mains.
[door closes]
[gasps]
You'll need it to get home.
Go find your baby.
And don't let anything
bad happen to her.
No! Let me out!
Captain! Houts!
Tina. the door won't budge.
Ice has sealed it shut.
Our best shot. we have
is to huddle together
and conserve our
heat. all right?
Yeah.
Well...
At least we got the code to Mom.
She's gonna fix things.
Hey. I'm proud of you.
You showed real
bravery today. honey.
And it's gonna be okay.
All right?
Mom and I promised.
TALIA:
Captain. come in!
Come in!
Thank you. Doctor.
This would not have
been possible
without
you up here with me.
Travel safe home.
Godspeed.
TALIA:
Thank you.
Over and out.
Capcom.
Chaser One Dr. Bennet is on
the lifeboat on her way home.
I'm taking control authority
and committing to push.
I understand. Captain.
I won't say goodbye.
Fly well.
Aye. sir.
All right. Nemesis.
Let's dance.
Come on.
[alarms blaring]
He's doing it.
He's moving Nemesis and
shifting Earth's axis back.
God bless you. Captain.
TALIA: General. I made
splashdown.
I'm alive.
Dr. Bennett. welcome home.
It's so warm.
General?
GREEN: He did it.
Nemesis is outbound.
Earth will thaw.
He made it count.
Thank you.
Joe! Joe! Tina!
I've got to talk to them.
GREEN: There are some
emergency towers back up.
They'll patch you through.
[phone vibrates]
Is that Mom?
Talia?
Joe? Tina?
Please tell me you're both
safe.
We're safe.
It's so good to hear your
voice.
JOE:
We've got you. Always.
Yeah. we love you. Mom.
I love you. too.
I love you. too. baby girl.
With all my heart.
I'll see you soon. okay?
I love you.
See you soon.
Let's go.